---
title: "Reactor Log Analysis Tool"
excerpt: "This was my 2022 summer intern project with my team at Amazon in Vancouver. I created an automated end-to-end log processing and summarization pipeline that allows developers to interact with live log records generated from the team's service."
collection: projects
---
Over the course of my three month internship at Amazon in Vancouver, I gained valuable experience working in my first software development position through the implementation of a Reactor Log Analysis Tool as an intern project. Within my team's service, there are numerous different processing steps performed on offer data when a merchant makes updates to their listings. While the team has numerous dashboards for monitoring performance of individual operations, there did not yet exist any dashboard for examining the performance of the system as a whole, especially when considering the chain of operations triggered by a single merchant update. The Reactor Log Analysis Tool was thus proposed as a solution for providing broader vision on the performance of such operation chains. 

Given that the service operates on the scale of TB/hour, the Reactor Log Analysis Tool had to be designed to support such load. Through research and prototyping, I learned how to leverage AWS technologies such as ElasticMapReduce, RedShift, and Lambda to support the proposed data processing pipeline at scale and with automation. I used a combination of Scala, Python, SQL, and TypeScript languages to implement this pipeline. AWS QuickSight was used to support the dashboard visualization of the log analysis summaries. At the end of the internship, I demoed my work through a 20 minutes presentation to software developers and managers from the organization. Through the use of my project, I was able to show reductions in theoretical time-to-resolution for a historical high-severity ticket from the scale of dev-hours to dev-minutes and identify a group of clients producing potential inefficiencies within the system.
